The Joe Rogan experience.
Well, that's Dr. Carl Hart's argument as well. He, he prefers heroin.
Yes. Yeah.
Just have you been paying attention to all the controversy of about his new book.
Course? Really interesting. It is really interesting. I mean, I,
I read a cover to cover. It's great. I love that guy. Me too.
He's so brave. Like the way he talks about things to,
for the guy to be a professor, her at Columbia,
and to just be openly stating I, I enjoy heroin and it makes me feel good.
It makes me compassionate, you know? And, and he, he uses pure heroin.
He likes to sniff it.
It's tremendously brave. And I, you know,
I was working on my show for such a long time and you're doing it in isolation
and then it comes out and you're wondering what P people think of it.
So I was name,
searching myself and saw some Reddit thread of all these people kind of
insulting Carl Hart. And I just felt like,
I think the average person doesn't get it.
I don't think they understand exactly how brave Carl Hart is. Yeah,
because I have traveled around the world. I've interviewed countless academics.
I've been in academic circles throughout my life drug use of the sort that he
describes is extremely common. It's extremely common.
But being honest about it is incredibly rare and is commendable. And,
and if more people were like him,
I think a lot of these stigmas would be reduced. And I've even heard people say,
well, how dare he reduced the stigmas associated with these things?
That's cruel. If you reduce the stigmas, you're hurting people.
They should be stigmatized. No, they should not be stigmatized.
Maybe they shouldn't be encouraged.
But if you find yourself in that sort of situation, you shouldn't be ashamed.
You should see it as if anything, a medical problem or a social problem.
Not something that you need to be hated for.
Right. Cause we're not, we don't hate people for being alcoholics. Right.
We praise them for their sobriety.
Like when they get through 90 day chip or whatever they get, you know,
people say they don't, they look at you like, you know, you're,
you're some sort of a fool because you couldn't handle a alcohol. They go, oh,
he was an alcoholic. But he sobered himself up. Good for him. Oh yeah.
Yeah. You don't.
The heroin use is just so stigmatized and I'm not a heroin user.
I haven't used heroin, but I did have a morphine drip. Once when I had a,
a surgery, it was awesome. Oh my God, I kept hammering that thing.
You press a button to give you a morphine drip. I had knee surgery and uh,
I was in the hospital and I was on this perpetual motion machine.
You ever seen one of those <laugh> cause I had an ACL reconstruction, Arteric,
cruciate ligament. It's a big injury. They take a piece of your patella,
tend in a piece of your shin bone and a piece of your knee.
And they open you up and screw 'em and drill in place pretty painful.
And so while you're lying in bed,
my knee is on this thing is going like bending and straightening my knee over
and over and over again.
And I'm lying in there and they give you a drip and anytime you want,
just press that button and you get a little drip of morphine and I'm going bang,
bang, bang. And it's just, ah,
I felt so good. I felt so good. I was like, oh, now I get it.
Now I know why people like this. And morphine's basically heroin. Right? Pretty.
Close. Extremely close. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I get it morphine. I.
Get it. Yeah. It's probably awesome. But for him, you know, he's,
he's talking about pure heroin, small amounts. He understands it.
He's a chemist, you know? I mean, he, he really gets it. You know,
he's a research scientist. He understand, you know,
he was a complete straight lace guy.
Wasn't doing anything until he was in his thirties.
Yeah. I know. Pretty crazy story. It is a crazy story.
And what I really appreciate about what he does is I think that there's a lot of
perhaps justified insecurity in the world of drugs.
So people have been oppressed for such a long time that they need a
justification of some kind I'm using psychedelics because it's religious,
I'm using psychedelics because it's medical,
it's a therapy I'm using psychedelics because it's traditional. It's part of my,
my religion. I'm using psychedelics for this reason or that reason.
It's very rare that people will just stand up and say,
I'm using these things because that's my freedom. Yeah.
I don't need to justify it.
I don't need to say that I have chronic back pain and it's treating it and I
should be allowed to treat my pain. It doesn't matter. It's just my choice.
It as an adult, even if it's bad for me, it's my choice as an adult. Yeah.
And it needs no justification like, like whiskey.
Yeah. I mean, whiskey celebrated and it's on television.
You can watch ads for whiskey during TV shows, it's like,
celebrate it, have a glass of whiskey. And I like whiskey,
but you drink a lot of whiskey will you up. And we don't care. We,
we we're just accustomed to it. It's become a part of our culture.
So it's a traditional use. It's, it's sanctioned by the government.
You got a nice tax stamp on it. And so we're okay with it. But.
All these patterns I just described emerged during prohibition as well. Yeah.
So you, so alcohol is prohibited. So you have medical whiskey.
You have, you got a prescription from the doctor for whiskey cuz it's, uh,
it's good for.
Your nerves. It's one of our sponsors Buffalo trace.
They've been around longer than the United States.
They've been around since 1773 and they made whiskey during prohibition.
They're still running. They're the longest running, uh, distillery in America.
And they made whiskey for medicinal purposes during
is kind.
Of hilarious. And of course we see it with cannabis as well. And I get it.
I understand why people are doing this because it remains very controversial.
And so you want some kind of justification,
but you should remember at the end of the day that no justification should be
required. Right. And if you get too lost in the justification,
you might forget why you're doing it in the first place.
Like an analogy that I've been thinking about for years.
Like this is kind of like a long analogy.
So it's gonna be like a one minute analogy, but like it would be,
it would be like if, um, in the sixties,
people started listening to music for the first time and they decided
that it was associated with the counter culture anti-war movement.
Um,
some people were listening to music too loud and causing irreversible damage to
their hearing. And so medical doctors said, okay, this is clearly a problem.
This person is deaf. As a result of listening to music, we've gotta regulate it.
We've gotta prohibit it to protect people cuz it's a problem.
And then on top of that,
there's an added advantage that because everyone is gonna continue listening to
music,
we can selectively prosecute the people that we want to because it's a little
crime that everyone is committing.
And then that keeps going for years and people continue listening to music and
playing music and they create their own biases where they say,
it's okay to listen to music.
It's just as long as you don't perform it or record it, it's all right.
As long as you're just a listener and then eventually some
scientists get together and they all say that they've never listened to music
before, because if they had, it would somehow bias their understanding.
And that would be terrible. So they've never listened to music before,
but they've looked at old,
pre-prohibition inform in on music and they've decided scientifically that it is
in fact very good and can be used as a medicine.
And then everyone embraces it as a medicine and says, oh,
I just listened to music today. It was so wonderful for my anxiety.
It was really fantastic. And that would be great. And that would be good.
And that would be a way to make music legal again.
But it also would entirely miss the point. Yeah.
That music doesn't have to be a medicine. And to be clear,
you could do these studies with music. Music is a medicine.
There is music therapy. I'm sure you could design a,
a study where music treats neurodegenerative diseases or music
treats depression. I guarantee it. And you could get positive results and you,
you could then say that music is a medicine, but know what?
It doesn't need to be a medicine. Right. And I just want people to, as,
as much as I enjoy this new
medicalization and the decriminalization that's taking place,
I just hope people remember that it doesn't need to be any of those things.
And this history of justification is T ultimately something that we are
doing because we're afraid,
afraid that to acknowledge the fact that we should be free to do whatever we
want, regardless of whether or not it's good.
Yes. Yeah. Well said, so, I mean, you could use that for anything, right?
You could say that about exercise. You could say that about running.
You like to run. Well,
there's been medical studies that show that running bad for your knees.
You should stop running. Oh.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. What the? <laugh> like, we should outlaw CrossFit.
You know how many people up their back tear, shoulders for CrossFit. Well,
we need to stop CrossFit. Well, you could say that about anything.
And the problem is a lot of what you get when you have people telling people
to not do things is people that don't have any experience in those things,
telling people not to do them and whether they're drugs or whether they're
physical activity or whether they're,
there's a lot of different things that people do that you could racing cars,
you could deem them detrimental. And, uh,
I am a proponent of freedom and I don't think there's any, all knowing all,
seeing being that's wiser that understands the correct way for all human
beings to move forward in life and the, the correct decisions to make.
There's no father figure.
There's no godlike human being out there that can guide us the correct way that
it's not there's pros and cons. Everything that you could abuse,
almost everything you do. You know, like if you, if you show that people,
if they jog a little bit every day, it actually turns out to be good for you.
But ultra marathons, we have to outlaw because, uh, these people,
or they're getting Rado myosis, they're, they're,
they're out diet Coke. They look terrible and they're dying. They're like, no,
like you gotta be able to do whatever you wanna do.
You're a human being and you are finite, no matter what,
it's not like if you die, the, uh,
entire world suffers some irreversible loss and,
and millions of people starve to death because you decided to run a hundred
miles. That's no, it's you and your life do what you want.
Whether it's some Mo marijuana or running a hundred miles or
doing whatever the you want. And unless we embrace that, we're,
we're going to see more of this nanny,
state nonsense that we've been dealing with since prohibition in this country
and we're dealing with it right now.
There's a lot of things that will never kill you that are illegal cannabis
being one of the big ones,
cuz that's the most preposterous one catch new episodes.
The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the J E in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this episode of the Joe Rogan experience.